en/api-reference/endpoint/payout.mdx, before:

---
title: "Make a Payout"
description: "Send money to a user’s mobile money account or bank via a payout service."
keywords: ["make payout", "send money", "fapshi payout", "bulk payments", "payment API"]
openapi: '/en/api-reference/openapi.json POST /payout'
---

## Endpoint

`POST /payout`

Send money to a user’s mobile money account or bank via a payout service.

<Warning>After enabling payouts for a service, that service can no longer collect payments. Use separate services for collections and payouts.</Warning>

## Parameters

| Name       | Required | Type    | Description                                                                                           |
|:-----------|:---------|:--------|:---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| amount     | Yes      | integer | Amount to send (minimum 100 XAF).                                                                       |
| phone      | Yes      | string  | Recipient phone number (e.g., 67XXXXXXX).                                                          |
| medium     | No       | string  | `"mobile money"` or `"orange money"`. Auto-detected if omitted.                                   |
| name       | No       | string  | Recipient’s name.                                                                                   |
| email      | No       | string  | Recipient’s email for payout confirmation receipt.                                                |
| userId     | No       | string  | Your system’s user ID for payout tracking (1-100 chars; allowed: a-z, A-Z, 0-9, -, _).            |
| externalId | No       | string  | Transaction/order ID for reconciliation (1-100 chars; allowed: a-z, A-Z, 0-9, -, _).              |
| message    | No       | string  | Description or reason for payout.                                                                  |

Commit message:

Update payout endpoint: add fapshi medium support with conditional requirements and sandbox test emails

en/api-reference/endpoint/payout.mdx, after:

---
title: "Make a Payout"
description: "Send money to a user’s mobile money account or bank via a payout service."
keywords: ["make payout", "send money", "fapshi payout", "bulk payments", "payment API"]
openapi: '/en/api-reference/openapi.json POST /payout'
---

## Endpoint

`POST /payout`

Send money to a user’s mobile money account or bank via a payout service.

<Warning>After enabling payouts for a service, that service can no longer collect payments. Use separate services for collections and payouts.</Warning>

## Parameters

| Name       | Required | Type    | Description                                                                                           |
|:-----------|:---------|:--------|:---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| amount     | Yes      | integer | Amount to send (minimum 100 XAF).                                                                       |
| phone      | Conditional | string  | Recipient phone number (e.g., 67XXXXXXX). Required when `medium` is not specified or not `"fapshi"`.                                                          |
| medium     | No       | string  | `"mobile money"`, `"orange money"`, or `"fapshi"`. Auto-detected if omitted (requires `phone`). When set to `"fapshi"`, `email` is required instead of `phone`.                                   |
| name       | No       | string  | Recipient's name.                                                                                   |
| email      | Conditional | string  | Recipient's email. Required when `medium` is `"fapshi"`. Optional for payout confirmation receipt when `medium` is not `"fapshi"`.                                                |
| userId     | No       | string  | Your system's user ID for payout tracking (1-100 chars; allowed: a-z, A-Z, 0-9, -, _).            |
| externalId | No       | string  | Transaction/order ID for reconciliation (1-100 chars; allowed: a-z, A-Z, 0-9, -, _).              |
| message    | No       | string  | Description or reason for payout.                                                                  |

### Required Fields

- **When `medium` is not specified**: `amount` and `phone` are required.
- **When `medium` is `"fapshi"`**: `amount` and `email` are required.

### Sandbox Testing

When testing payouts with `medium` set to `"fapshi"` in the sandbox environment:

- **Emails that always return successful transactions**: `test.success@fapshi.com` and `messi.champion@fapshi.com`
- **Emails that always return failed transactions**: `test.failed@fapshi.com` and `penaldo.test@fapshi.com`
- **Other emails**: Transaction status will be determined in a stochastic (random) manner
